refactor: the vsi-map key to use the subnet-name (#610)
terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-landing-zone-vsi: update/update-version.md

1. Click on `Apply plan`.

1. [Optional] If a schematics workspace job that was initiated through the script encounters an issue, you can undo any modifications made by running the script again with the -z flag. For example,
```sh
bash schematics_update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh -z
```
A new schematics workspace job reverting the state back to its prior condition, which existed prior to the execution of the script.

## Local Terraform State file
{: #local}

If you have both the code and the Terraform state file stored locally on your machine, you can utilize the update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh script to avoid the recreation of Virtual Server Instances (VSIs).

1. Make sure you have all the dependencies to run the script.
    - IBM Cloud CLI
    - IBM Cloud CLI 'is' plugin
    - Terraform CLI
    - jq

1. Set the `IBMCLOUD_API_KEY` variable as an environment variable.
    1. IBMCLOUD_API_KEY : This is an IBM Cloud API key, which can be used for accessing the Projects/Schematics Workspace. For more information, see https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-userapikey&interface=ui
    ```sh
        export IBMCLOUD_API_KEY="<API-KEY>" #pragma: allowlist secret
    ```

> 1. Retrive the VPC IDs of the VPC on which all the VSIs are deployed, including the region of VPC.

Reviewer: The module itself only supports passing one VPC ID using the `vpc_id`, so it should say:
`Retrieve the VPC ID ...`

>     1. VPC ID can be retrieved from the terraform output by running `terraform output`.

Reviewer: We should give more info on how to user can retrieve this. Can we find a common `jq` command that can return it?

> 1. Run the script

Reviewer: It needs to be made clear that the user is going to have to execute the script from the same directory in which the state file exists. Perhaps we explicitly add a step to copy the script to that location first?

```sh
bash update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh -v "<vpc-id1>,[<vpc-id2>,...]" -r "<vpc-region>"
```

> 1. Now pull in the latest release and run `terraform plan` and make sure none of the VSIs will be recreated.

Reviewer: Split this into separate steps..

1. Update the version of the module in your consuming code to the 4.x.x version. For example:
```
source                           = "terraform-ibm-modules/landing-zone-vsi/ibm"
version                          = "4.0.0"
```
2. Run `terraform init` to pull the latest version
3. Run `terraform plan` to ensure none of the VSIs will be recreated. You should see an update in-place for all of the VSIs in your state. The update will rename the VSI to the new naming convention of `prefix + last 4 digits of subnet_id + padding per subnet`. For example:
```
~ name                             = "prefix-001" -> "prefix-3ad7-001"
```

> 1. Run `terraform apply`.

Reviewer: Run `terraform apply` to upgrade to the 4.x.x version of thoe module and apply the update in place to rename the VSIs.

> 1. [Optional] If an issue occurs during the Terraform state migration, you can undo the modifications made by the script by running it again with the -z option. For example,

Reviewer: I would move this step so its part of Step 1 above (Run the script). Perhaps word it like:
"In the unlikely event that an issue occurs ...."

Reviewer: I would also mention that if the script did fail, once the user reverts, they should not proceed with remaining steps and instead create an IBM Cloud support case and reference the script along with the error.

1. Click on `Apply plan`.

1. [Optional] If a schematics workspace job that was initiated through the script encounters an issue, you can undo any modifications made by running the script again with the -z flag. For example,
```sh
bash schematics_update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh -z
```
A new schematics workspace job reverting the state back to its prior condition, which existed prior to the execution of the script.

## Local Terraform State file
{: #local}

If you have both the code and the Terraform state file stored locally on your machine, you can utilize the update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh script to avoid the recreation of Virtual Server Instances (VSIs).

1. Make sure you have all the dependencies to run the script.
    - IBM Cloud CLI
    - IBM Cloud CLI 'is' plugin
    - Terraform CLI
    - jq

1. Set the `IBMCLOUD_API_KEY` variable as an environment variable.
    1. IBMCLOUD_API_KEY : This is an IBM Cloud API key, which can be used for accessing the VPC. For more information, see https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-userapikey&interface=ui
    ```sh
    export IBMCLOUD_API_KEY="<API-KEY>" #pragma: allowlist secret
    ```

> 1. Retrive the VPC ID of the VPC on which all the VSIs are deployed, including the region of VPC.

Reviewer: we never mentioned how to get the region. I don't actually see a region value exposed in the output. I do see it in some CRNs though, should we parse it?. Or should add a region to the output (would have come in a PR that was merged before this release though). Or can we just assume people will know what region their VPC is in?

    1. VPC ID can be retrieved from the terraform output by running `terraform output` or use the following command to get the VPC ID
    ```sh

>     terraform output -json | jq -r '.. | objects | .value' | jq -r '.. | objects | select(.vpc_id != null) | .vpc_id' | sort -u

Reviewer: you might want to append `| xargs` to that command so it returns no blank line (as it did for me)

    ```

1. Download/Copy the script to the same directory in which the state file exists.
```sh
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-landing-zone-vsi/refactor/update/update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh > update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh
```

1. Run the script
```sh

> bash update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh -v "<vpc-id1>,[<vpc-id2>,...]" -r "<vpc-region>"

Reviewer: theres only going to be 1 VPC right? So the usage should not show passing multiple vpcs?

```
In the unlikely event that an issue occurs, you can undo the modifications made by the script by running it again with the -z option. For example,
```sh
bash update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh -z
```
Reverting the Terraform state file back to its prior condition, which existed prior to the execution of the script.

**Note:** If the script did fail, once the user reverts, they should not proceed with remaining steps and instead create an IBM Cloud support case and reference the script along with the error.

1. Now pull in the latest release and run `terraform plan` and make sure none of the VSIs will be recreated.
    1. Update the version of the module in your consuming code to the 4.x.x version. For example:\
        ```hcl
        source                           = "terraform-ibm-modules/landing-zone-vsi/ibm"
        version                          = "4.0.0"
        ```

>     1. Run terraform init to pull the latest version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Run `terraform init` to pull the latest version
```

>     1. Run terraform plan to ensure none of the VSIs will be recreated. You should see an update in-place for all of the VSIs in your state. The update will rename the VSI to the new naming convention of prefix + last 4 digits of subnet_id + padding per subnet. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Run `terraform plan` to ensure none of the VSIs will be recreated. You should see an update in-place for all of the VSIs in your state. The update will rename the VSI to the new naming convention of `prefix + last 4 digits of subnet_id + padding per subnet`. For example:
```

        - Select the VPC associated with the VSI deployment.
        - Copy the **VPC ID** from the Overview tab.
    1. Get VPC ID from Projects:
        - In the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console, click the **Navigation menu** icon ![Navigation menu icon](../icons/icon_hamburger.svg "Menu"), and then click **Projects**.
        - Select the Project associated with your VSI deployment.
        - Click on the **Configurations** tab.
        - Select the configuration associated with your VSI deployment.
        - In the **Outputs** tab you can find an output labeled **vpc_data**.
        - Clicking on it will open a json of all the VPC data of the VPCs provisioned.
        - Copy the VPC IDs from the **vpc_data** json.

1. [Optional] If the VSIs are being deployed in an account that is different from the account where the Schematics Workspace are located, you need to provide an IBM Cloud API key, which can be used for fetching the VPC details. In this case, you can pass the VPC API-KEY to the script using `-k` flag. For more information, see https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-userapikey&interface=ui

> 1. Run the script from any local machine

Reviewer: you missing the step to download the script before running it

```sh

> bash schematics_update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh -v "<vpc-id1>,[<vpc-id2>,...]" -r "<vpc-region> [-k <vpc-ibm-api-key>]"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bash schematics_update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh -v "<vpc-id1>,[<vpc-id2>,...]" -r "<vpc-region>" [-k "<vpc-ibm-api-key>"]
```

```

> This script will trigger a new job in the schematics workspace, please monitor the state of the job in IBM Cloud UI. Check if the job completes **Successfully**, in that case go ahead with **Step 5**. In case of schematics workspace job ends in a failed state, please follow **Step 7** to revert any changes made by the script.

Reviewer: there is no step 5 or step 7 - the numbering has reset:

![image](https://github.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-landing-zone-vsi/assets/29608224/288dc5a4-dcea-48a5-81a3-164f7cd5491e)

> 1. Now pull in the latest release in Schematics and click on `Generate plan` and make sure none of the VSIs will be recreated.

Reviewer: Need to be more specific here. The user would have to update their code to consume version 4.x.x, and then update their schematics workspace to the version of their code that contains the updated module.

Also lets be more clear that the expected behaviour should be that the plans contains only naming updates, and no destroy / re-creates of any resources.

1. Click on `Apply plan`.

1. [Optional] If a schematics workspace job that was initiated through the script encounters an issue, you can undo any modifications made by running the script again with the -z flag. For example,
```sh
bash schematics_update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh -z
```

> A new schematics workspace job reverting the state back to its prior condition, which existed prior to the execution of the script.

Reviewer: maybe we should make it clear that it will use the `moved.json` and `revert.json` files for this that got created when the script initially ran.

Also add a step to delete them like you did in local state steps

1. Run the script from any local machine
```sh
bash schematics_update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh -v "<vpc-id1>,[<vpc-id2>,...]" -r "<vpc-region> [-k <vpc-ibm-api-key>]"
```
This script will trigger a new job in the schematics workspace, please monitor the state of the job in IBM Cloud UI. Check if the job completes **Successfully**, in that case go ahead with **Step 5**. In case of schematics workspace job ends in a failed state, please follow **Step 7** to revert any changes made by the script.

1. Now pull in the latest release in Schematics and click on `Generate plan` and make sure none of the VSIs will be recreated.

1. Click on `Apply plan`.

1. [Optional] If a schematics workspace job that was initiated through the script encounters an issue, you can undo any modifications made by running the script again with the -z flag. For example,
```sh
bash schematics_update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh -z
```
A new schematics workspace job reverting the state back to its prior condition, which existed prior to the execution of the script.

## Local Terraform State file

> {: #local}

Reviewer: whats this supposed to do? Its not rendering anything in the markdown:
![image](https://github.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-landing-zone-vsi/assets/29608224/60998642-0099-43ed-a94b-161f07a5c302)

If you have both the code and the Terraform state file stored locally on your machine, you can utilize the update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh script to avoid the recreation of Virtual Server Instances (VSIs).

1. Make sure you have all the dependencies to run the script.
    - IBM Cloud CLI
    - IBM Cloud CLI 'is' plugin
    - Terraform CLI
    - jq

1. Set the `IBMCLOUD_API_KEY` variable as an environment variable.
    1. IBMCLOUD_API_KEY : This is an IBM Cloud API key, which can be used for accessing the VPC. For more information, see https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-userapikey&interface=ui
    ```sh
    export IBMCLOUD_API_KEY="<API-KEY>" #pragma: allowlist secret
    ```

> 1. Retrive the VPC ID and the region of the VPC on which all the VSIs are deployed, including the region of VPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Retrieve the VPC IDs and region of any VPCs in which VSIs are deployed
```

>     1. VPC ID can be retrieved from the terraform output by running `terraform output` or use the following command to get the VPC ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. VPC IDs can be retrieved from the terraform output by running `terraform output` or use the following jq command to parse them from the state:
```

    ```sh
    terraform output -json | jq -r '.. | objects | .value' | jq -r '.. | objects | select(.vpc_id != null) | .vpc_id' | sort -u | xargs
    ```
    1. Region also can be retrieved using the following command
    ```sh

>     terraform output -json | jq -r '.. | objects | .value' | jq -r '.. | objects | select(.vpc_id != null) | .zone' | rev | cut -c3- | rev | sort -u | xargs

Reviewer: this command didnt work for me. It returned a result of `nu us-south`

```
% terraform output -json | jq -r '.. | objects | .value' | jq -r '.. | objects | select(.vpc_id != null) | .zone' | rev | cut -c3- | rev | sort -u | xargs
nu us-south
```

Its because the follow command returns some `null` values in my state (generates from complete example):
```
% terraform output -json | jq -r '.. | objects | .value' | jq -r '.. | objects | select(.vpc_id != null) | .zone'
null
null
us-south-1
us-south-2
us-south-3
us-south-1
us-south-2
us-south-3
```

    ```

1. Download/Copy the script to the same directory in which the state file exists.
    ```sh
    curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-landing-zone-vsi/main/update/update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh > update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh
    ```

1. Run the script
    ```sh

>     bash update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh -v "<vpc-id>" -r "<vpc-region>"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    bash update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh -v "<vpc-id-1>,<vpc-id-2>,.." -r "<vpc-region>"
```

# Updating from v3.x.x to v4.x.x

Starting from version v4.x.x, we have refactored the code for the VSI module, resulting in a significant change when transitioning from version 3.x.x to 4.x.x. This means that the Virtual Server Instances (VSIs) managed by this module will be deleted and recreated during the update process.

By employing the suggested method, you can avoid the need for VSI recreation.

- [Schematics](#schematics)
- [Local Terraform State file](#local)

## Schematics
{: #schematics}

If you have your cloud infrastructure deployed using Schematics, you can use the  `schematics_update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh` script to avoid the recreation of Virtual Server Instances (VSIs).

1. Make sure you have all the dependencies to run the script.
    - IBM Cloud CLI
    - IBM Cloud CLI 'is' plugin
    - IBM Cloud CLI 'schematics' plugin
    - Terraform CLI
    - jq
    - readarray

2. Set the `IBMCLOUD_API_KEY`, `WORKSPACE_ID` variables as an environment variable.

> 3. Retrive the VPC IDs of the VPC on which all the VSIs are deployed, including the region of VPC.

Reviewer: Need more info on how to do this

    - jq

1. Set the `IBMCLOUD_API_KEY` variable as an environment variable.
    1. IBMCLOUD_API_KEY : This is an IBM Cloud API key, which can be used for accessing the VPC. For more information, see https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-userapikey&interface=ui
    ```sh
    export IBMCLOUD_API_KEY="<API-KEY>" #pragma: allowlist secret
    ```

1. Retrive the VPC ID of the VPC on which all the VSIs are deployed, including the region of VPC.
    1. VPC ID can be retrieved from the terraform output by running `terraform output` or use the following command to get the VPC ID
    ```sh
    terraform output -json | jq -r '.. | objects | .value' | jq -r '.. | objects | select(.vpc_id != null) | .vpc_id' | sort -u
    ```

1. Download/Copy the script to the same directory in which the state file exists.
```sh

> curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-landing-zone-vsi/refactor/update/update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh > update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh

Reviewer: you will wan't this to point to main branch for this doc (I know it doesn't exist yet, but it will when PR is merged)

```sh
bash update_v3.x.x_to_v4.x.x.sh -z
```
Reverting the Terraform state file back to its prior condition, which existed prior to the execution of the script.

**Note:** If the script did fail, once the user reverts, they should not proceed with remaining steps and instead create an IBM Cloud support case and reference the script along with the error.

1. Now pull in the latest release and run `terraform plan` and make sure none of the VSIs will be recreated.
    1. Update the version of the module in your consuming code to the 4.x.x version. For example:\
        ```hcl
        source                           = "terraform-ibm-modules/landing-zone-vsi/ibm"
        version                          = "4.0.0"
        ```
    1. Run terraform init to pull the latest version
    1. Run terraform plan to ensure none of the VSIs will be recreated. You should see an update in-place for all of the VSIs in your state. The update will rename the VSI to the new naming convention of prefix + last 4 digits of subnet_id + padding per subnet. For example:
    ```sh
    ~ name                             = "prefix-001" -> "prefix-3ad7-001"
    ```

> 1. Run `terraform apply` to upgrade to the 4.x.x version of the module and apply the update in place to rename the VSIs.

Reviewer: I see the script created `moved.txt` and `revert.txt` in the same directory as the script was run. I was going to suggest using a temp dir, but I guess you need to know the exact location and name of the file incase a revert is needed right?
So maybe the best we can do is document that these files can be manually cleaned after successful upgrade.
